Welcome to another breakpoint session.
And this one.
It would be nice to trace their runtime and see how exactly does an integration test map the request
and response lifecycle.
First, an integration test starts by performing a mock request that is going to be intercepted by one
of your handler methods.
Already you want to add an added breakpoints to the three handler methods that we have in the controller.
So here what I'll do is I will run this test in debug mode.
All right, beautiful.
It performs a mock request on an empty path, and it passes in an ID that equals 1 to 3.
The handler method grade form will intercept the request made on this empty path, and it will receive
the ID that equals 1 to 3.
But the idea that gets passed in doesn't really matter because this will either return an empty object
or it will return an object that's pre-populated.
But anyways, the object that gets returned will be added to our model.
Finally, if can use it from there and then our handler method will successfully return the form view.
If you go back, our test should pass because the response was successful.
The view returned was the form, and the model did have an attribute grade that acted as a form backing
object.
So now we can rest assured that when our application receives requests made on an empty path.
It's going to behave correctly.
The integration test that follows will test for a successful submission.
So this is going to do is perform a post request on the path handle submit and it's going to pass in
three parameters a name, a subject and a score.
Our handler method intercepts the post request that was made on handle submit and as soon as it does,
it's going to create an MBTI grade object and populate it with fields from payload and the post request.
All of the payload that was passed in was valid, so it follows that our binding result isn't going
to have any errors.
There are zero errors, so we can rest assured that when a user passes incorrect data.
Our handler method is not going to return the form, it's going to submit the grade, and then it's
going to redirect them to another request on slash grades.
So our test passes because it was expecting a redirection and it was expecting the redirected URL to
be on slash grades.
So now our test reassures us that when a user enters valid data, the submission will be successful.
But what if they enter invalid data?
Let's run this in debug mode.
Once again, our handler method receives the post request made on slash handle submit.
The parameters that were passed into the post request were garbage data in this case as submit form
creates a new grid object and tries to populate it with values from the payload.
The validation will fail and our binding result will carry three errors.
Because the result has errors, it's going to return the form.
And our test passes because that's exactly what it was expecting.
It was expecting that when a user enters garbage data, the application should take them back to the
form view.
All right.
The last thing we tested was if a user makes a request on slash grades, will our handler method return
the appropriate view?
Is it going to add the correct model attribute that's needed to populate the view with data?
Let's find out.
Debug the test.
Our handler method does receive the get request.
It adds the grades model attribute.
It does return the grades view.
And our test reassures us that when a request is made on grades, our application will behave correctly.
This concludes our discussion on testing.